lightning: update get started doc (#16137)
pingcap/docs: get-started-with-tidb-lightning.md

---
title: Quick Start for TiDB Lightning
aliases: ['/docs/dev/get-started-with-tidb-lightning/','/docs/dev/how-to/get-started/tidb-lightning/']
---

# Quick Start for TiDB Lightning

> This document provides a quick guide on how to get started with TiDB Lightning, importing MySQL data into a TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides a quick guide on getting started with TiDB Lightning by importing MySQL data into a TiDB cluster.
```

> **Warning:**
>
> The deployment method in this tutorial is only recommended for test and trial. **Do not apply it in the production or development environment.**

## Step 1: Prepare full backup data

First, you can use [dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) to export data from MySQL.

1. Run `tiup --version` to check if TiUP is already installed. If TiUP is installed, skip this step. If TiUP is not installed, run the following command:

    ```

>      curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
```

    ```

2. Using TiUP to install Dumpling:

    ```shell
    tiup install dumpling
    ```

> 3. To export data from MySQL, you can refer to the detailed steps provided in the documentation under the section [Use Dumpling to Export Data](/dumpling-overview.md#Export-to-SQL-files)：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To export data from MySQL, you can refer to the detailed steps provided in [Use Dumpling to Export Data](/dumpling-overview.md#export-to-sql-files)：
```

    ```sh
    tiup dumpling -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -F 256MB -B test -f 'test.t[12]' -o /data/my_database/
    ```

    In the above command:

    - `-t 16`: Export data using 16 threads.
    - `-F 256MB`: Split each table into multiple files, with each file approximately 256 MB in size.
    - `-B test`: Export from the `test` database.
    - `-f 'test.t[12]'`: Export only the two tables `test.t1` and `test.t2`.

    The full backup data exported will be saved in the `/data/my_database` directory.

> ## Step 2: Deploy the TiDB Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Deploy the TiDB cluster
```

Before starting the data import, you need to deploy a TiDB cluster for the import. If you already have a TiDB cluster, you can skip this step.

> For the steps on deploying a TiDB cluster, please refer to the [Quick Start Guide for the TiDB Database Platform](/quick-start-with-tidb.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the steps on deploying a TiDB cluster, refer to the [Quick Start Guide for the TiDB Database Platform](/quick-start-with-tidb.md).
```

## Step 3: Install TiDB Lightning

Run the following command to install the latest version of TiDB Lightning:

```shell
tiup install tidb-lightning
```

## Step 4: Start TiDB Lightning

> **Note:**
>

> > The import method in this section is only suitable for testing and functional experience. For production environments, please refer to [Migrate Large Datasets from MySQL to TiDB](/migrate-large-mysql-to-tidb.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The import method in this section is only suitable for testing and functional experience. For production environments, refer to [Migrate Large Datasets from MySQL to TiDB](/migrate-large-mysql-to-tidb.md)
```

> 1. Create the configuration file tidb-lightning.toml and fill in the following settings based on your cluster information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the configuration file `tidb-lightning.toml` and fill in the following settings based on your cluster information:
```

    [tikv-importer]
    # Configure the import mode
    backend = "local"

>     # Sets the directory for temporarily storing the sorted key-value pairs.The target directory must be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Sets the directory for temporarily storing the sorted key-value pairs. The target directory must be empty.
```

    pd-addr = "172.16.31.3:2379"
    ```

> 2. Run `tidb-lightning`. To avoid the program exiting due to the `SIGHUP` signal when starting the program directly in the command line using `nohup`, it is recommended to put the `nohup` command in a script. An example is provided below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `tidb-lightning`. To avoid the program exiting due to the `SIGHUP` signal when starting the program directly in the command line using `nohup`, it is recommended to put the `nohup` command in a script. For example:
```
